Add doc on troubleshooting campaigns (#16770)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/campaigns/references/troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting

This page is meant to help narrow down and eliminate problems when trying to execute a campaign spec with `src campaign [apply|preview]` or managing an already created campaign and its changesets.

## Executing campaign steps

Since `src campaign [apply|preview]` execute a campaign spec on the host machine on which it is executed (and not on the Sourcegraph instance), there are a lot of different possibilities that can cause it to fail: from missing dependencies to missing credentials when trying to connect ot the Sourcegraph instance.

> The following questions can be used to find out what's causing the problem and should ideally be answered with "yes".

Reviewer: I like this approach. :+1:

### Is `src` connected to the right Sourcegraph instance?

Run the following command, replacing `sourcegraph.example.com` with the URL of your Sourcegraph instance, to make sure `src` is configured correctly:

```bash
src login https://sourcegraph.example.com
```

If `src` is correctly configured, then the output should look similar to the following:

```

> ✔️  Authenticated as mmy-username on https://ssourcegraph.example.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
✔️  Authenticated as my-username on https://sourcegraph.example.com
```

```

### Are dependencies installed?

When executing campaign specs `src` uses Docker and git. Make sure that those are installed and accessible to you on your machine.

To test whether `git` is installed and accessible, run the following:

```bash
git version
```

To test whether Docker is installed and configured correctly, run the following:

```
docker run hello-world
```

That command will pull Docker's `hello-world` image and try to execute a container using that image. If it works, you should see a "Hello from Docker!" message telling you that your installation seems to work.

### Does "Hello World" work?

If executing your campaign spec fails and you haven't tested campaigns with another campaign spec before, it can help to run the "Hello World" campaign to nail down what the problem is.

Go through the "[Quickstart](../quickstart.md)" to run a campaign that adds "Hello World" to `README.md` files with the following campaign spec:

```yaml
name: hello-world
description: Add Hello World to READMEs

# Find all repositories that contain a README.md file.
on:

>   - repositoriesMatchingQuery: file:README.md

Reviewer: Given how many repositories most Sourcegraph instances will have, we might want to add a `count:` directive to keep this speedy.

Author: done! Did something different, but has the same effect.

> # Find all repositories that contain a README.md file.
> on:
>   - repositoriesMatchingQuery: file:README.md

Author: ```suggestion
# Find one repository with a README.md
on:
  - repositoriesMatchingQuery: repohasfile:README.md count:1
```

For example, this query will only yield repositories that have `github.com/my-org` in their name:

```yaml
# [...]
on:
  - repositoriesMatchingQuery: repo:^github.com/my-org
```

This one will only return a single repository matching that exact name:

```yaml
# [...]
on:
  - repositoriesMatchingQuery: repo:^github.com/my-org/my-repo$
```

That can also be achieved with the mentioned `on.repository` attribute:

```yaml
# [...]
on:
  - repository: github.com/my-org/my-repo1
  - repository: github.com/my-org/my-repo2
```

Once you know that executing the campaign spec works with one or more repositories, you can expand the scope back to its original form and hopefully nail down in which repository execution breaks.

### Can you download a repository archive?

If `src` is stuck in the "Initializing workspace" phase for a repository or fails to initialize the workspace, try to see whether you can download an archive of the repository manually on your command line with `curl`:

```
curl -L -v -X GET -H 'Accept: application/zip' \
  -H "Authorization: token $SRC_ACCESS_TOKEN" \

>   "SRC_ENDPOINT/github.com/my-org/my-repo@refs/heads/master/-/raw" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "$SRC_ENDPOINT/github.com/my-org/my-repo@refs/heads/master/-/raw" \
```
